In the news
Miguel Uribe Turbay in 2019
Miguel Uribe Turbay
Colombian senator Miguel Uribe Turbay (pictured), a pre-candidate in the 2026 presidential election, dies two months after being shot.
Azerbaijan and Armenia sign a declaration to formalize a future peace treaty to end the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
American astronaut Jim Lovell, the commander of Apollo 13, dies at the age of 97.
A helicopter crash in the Ashanti Region, Ghana, kills eight people on board including ministers Edward Omane Boamah and Ibrahim Murtala Muhammed.
Ongoing: Gaza warRussian invasion of Ukraine timelineSudanese civil war timeline
Recent deaths: Mike CastleI Gusti Kompyang ManilaTomo SakuraiElie MartelDale WebsterJackie Bezos
Nominate an article
On this day
August 19: Afghan Independence Day

Bersey electric cab
Bersey electric cab
1725 – J. S. Bach led the first performance of Lobe den Herren, den mächtigen König der Ehren, BWV 137, a cantata setting the unchanged text of Neander's hymn.
1745 – Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard at Glenfinnan, Scotland, in an attempt to regain the British throne for his father, beginning the Jacobite rising of 1745.
1897 – The Bersey Electric Cab (pictured) entered service as the first electric taxi in London.
1920 – Russian Civil War: Peasants in Tambov Governorate began a rebellion against the Bolshevik government of Soviet Russia.
2005 – Thunderstorms in southern Ontario, Canada, spawned at least three tornadoes that caused over C$500 million in damage.
Tom Wills (b. 1835)Régine Chassagne (b. 1976)Aleksander Kreek (d. 1977)Linus Pauling (d. 1994)
More anniversaries: August 18August 19August 20
ArchiveBy emailList of days of the yearAbout
Today's featured picture
Saint-Gaudens double eagle
The Saint-Gaudens double eagle is a twenty-dollar coin, or double eagle, produced by the United States Mint from 1907 to 1933. The gold coin is named after Augustus Saint-Gaudens, who designed the obverse and reverse. In 1904, President Theodore Roosevelt sought to beautify American coinage, and proposed Saint-Gaudens as an artist capable of the task. Although he had poor experiences with the Mint and its chief engraver, Charles E. Barber, Saint-Gaudens accepted Roosevelt's call. The work was subject to considerable delays, due to technical difficulties as well as Saint-Gaudens's declining health. Saint-Gaudens died in 1907, after designing the eagle and the double eagle, but before the designs were finalized for production. After several versions of the design for the double eagle proved too difficult to strike, Barber modified Saint-Gaudens's design, lowering the relief so that the coin could be struck with only one blow. When the coins were finally released, they proved controversial as they lacked the words "In God We Trust", and Congress intervened to require the motto's inclusion. The coin was minted, primarily for use in international trade, until 1933. The 1933 double eagle is among the most valuable of U.S. coins, with the sole example presently known to be in private hands selling in 2021 for $18.9 million. This photograph shows the obverse (left) and reverse (right) of the high-relief version of the 1907 Saint-Gaudens double eagle.

Coin design credit: United States Mint; photographed by Heritage Auctions